These three papers investigate irrigation scheduling or management through the soil water balance approach, and irrigation is scheduled when the water balance computation project soil water to drop below some minimum level. The key idea is to analyse the relationship among soil water storage, inflow and outflow. In the paper by Broner, the soil water content is estimated by ?WC=RAIN+IRR-AET-DP, where ?WC is the change of soil water content, IRR is the irrigation depth, AET is actual ET and DP is deep percolation. AET is estimated by ETr*KC*KS, where ETr is the reference ET, KC the crop coefficient and KS the soil dryness coefficient. The paper by Andales et al. describes the soil water status in terms of a soil water deficit, the difference between the field capacity and the present water content, and estimates the soil water deficit through ?D=Etc-P-Irr-U+SRO+DP, where D is the soil water deficit, ETc is the crop evapotranspiration rate, P is the gross precipitation, Irr is the irrigation amount, U is the upflux of shallow ground water into the root zone, SRO is the surface runoff, and DP is deep percolation or drainage. By assuming U to be zero, SRO and DP accounted for in a simple way, a simple model is used: ?D=ETc-P-Irr. ETc can be obtained from CoAgMet (The Colrado Agricultural Meteorological Network) or estimated by ETr*Kc*Ks with atmometers used to estimate reference crop ET. The soil water balance model in the paper by Ma et al. considers rainfall, irrigation, drainage out of the root zone, actual ET, and the surface runoff. The novelty of the model is that it quantifies drainage out of the root zone by incorporating the Darcy’s law,


These two papers indicate that, irrigated agriculture will take place under water scarcity, and irrigation management will shift from emphasizing production per unit area towards maximizing the production per unit of water consumed, the water productivity. Deficit irrigation refers to the application of water below the ET requirements. The paper "deficit irrigation" reviews its use in reducing water consumption for biomass production, and for irrigation of annual and perennial crops. And the paper "ET, grain yield and water use efficiency" investigates relationships between ET and dry matter production, grain yield and water use efficiency through a field experiment involving six irrigation treatments (from rain-fed to 5 irrigation applications) in the North China Plain for 6 years.


This paper provides a review of widely-used soil water models developed in Australia over the last three to four decades in terms of model complexity (simple models with tipping-bucket approach, complex models incorporating continuous soil profiles), input data requirements, model performance, limitations and assumptions